Document client connection quotas (#1109)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/manage/cluster-maintenance/configure-availability.mdx

---
title: Configure Availability 
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Configure Availability | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Guidelines for configuring Redpanda clusters for optimal availability."/>
</head>

import ConfigureAvailabilityIntro from './shared/_intro-configure-availability.mdx'

<ConfigureAvailabilityIntro/>

## Limit Client Connections

A malicious Kafka client application may create many network connections to execute its attacks. A poorly configured application may also create an excessive number of connections. To mitigate the risk of a client creating too many connections and using too many system resources, you can configure a Redpanda cluster to impose limits on the number of created client connections for its Kafka protocol server nodes. 

The following cluster properties limit the number of connections:

- [kafka_connections_max](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max): Similar to Kafka's `max.connections`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created by a node.

> - [kafka_connections_max_per_ip](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max_per_ip): Similar to Kafka's `max.connections.per.ip`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created per IP address by a node.

Reviewer: There is also `kafka_connections_max_overrides` similar to the other override property for the rate limit, but for connection count.

Redpanda also provides properties to manage the rate of connection creation:

- [kafka_connection_rate_limit](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit): This property limits the maximum rate of connections created per second. It applies per CPU core.

> - [kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides): For targeted overrides of `kafka_connection_rate_limit`, this property enables unlimited connection creation to the IP addresses specified in the property's list.

Reviewer: It's less that it's unlimited connections, more that you get to specify a limit per IP.

---
title: Configure Availability 
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Configure Availability | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="Guidelines for configuring Redpanda clusters for optimal availability."/>
</head>

import ConfigureAvailabilityIntro from './shared/_intro-configure-availability.mdx'

<ConfigureAvailabilityIntro/>

## Limit Client Connections

A malicious or compromised Kafka client may create many network connections to execute its attacks. To mitigate the risk of a bad client creating too many connections and taking down a node, you can configure a Redpanda cluster to impose limits on the number of created client connections for its Kafka protocol server nodes. 

> The cluster properties that limit the number of connections:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following cluster properties limit the number of connections:
```

> - [kafka_connections_max](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max). Similar to Kafka's `max.connections`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created by a node.
> - [kafka_connections_max_per_ip](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max_per_ip). Similar to Kafka's `max.connections.per.ip`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created per IP address by a node.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [kafka_connections_max](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max): Similar to Kafka's `max.connections`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created by a node.
- [kafka_connections_max_per_ip](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max_per_ip): Similar to Kafka's `max.connections.per.ip`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created per IP address by a node.
```

Redpanda also provides properties to manage the rate of connection creation:

> - [kafka_connection_rate_limit](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit). This property limits the maximum rate of connections created per second. It applies per CPU core.
> - [kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides). For targeted overrides of `kafka_connection_rate_limit`, this property enables unlimited connection creation to the IP addresses specified in the property's list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [kafka_connection_rate_limit](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit): This property limits the maximum rate of connections created per second. It applies per CPU core.
- [kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides): For targeted overrides of `kafka_connection_rate_limit`, this property enables unlimited connection creation to the IP addresses specified in the property's list.
```

> :::note
> All these connection limit properties are disabled by default, so they require manual configuration to enable.
> :::
> 
> :::note
> A client typically opens two or three connections, so the total number of connections usually is not equal to the number of clients.
> :::

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::note notes
- These connection limit properties are disabled by default. You must manually enable them.
- Typically, a client opens two or three connections, so the total number of connections is not equal to the number of clients.
:::
```

The following cluster properties limit the number of connections:

- [kafka_connections_max](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max): Similar to Kafka's `max.connections`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created by a node.
- [kafka_connections_max_per_ip](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connections_max_per_ip): Similar to Kafka's `max.connections.per.ip`, this property sets the maximum number of connections created per IP address by a node.

Redpanda also provides properties to manage the rate of connection creation:

- [kafka_connection_rate_limit](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit): This property limits the maximum rate of connections created per second. It applies per CPU core.
- [kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides](../../../reference/cluster-properties#kafka_connection_rate_limit_overrides): For targeted overrides of `kafka_connection_rate_limit`, this property enables unlimited connection creation to the IP addresses specified in the property's list.

:::note notes
- These connection limit properties are disabled by default. You must manually enable them.

> - Typically, a client opens two or three connections, so the total number of connections is not equal to the number of clients.

Reviewer: To really emphasize this, maybe add "...for example, to support 100 clients, you might set your connection limit to 300".
